One of the things we need to think about when sculpting is to try and get our base mesh to the party
lines are relatively the same size.
Now the words I'm going to have to insert a few editors because if you look at the arms here we have
these huge polygons here and then over here they're pretty small.
So we need to begin thinking about getting them a little bit more the same size they're never gonna
be all exactly the same.
But I think we need to get them a little bit more uniform so to do that.
One thing I've noticed here is I'm going to need a new edge loop right around the shoulders to kind
of hold the shoulders.
And the problem is is if I insert an edge loop them I'm just going to press control are here I can insert
an edge loop here or I can insert and actually appear but I can't get one to wrap around like a necklace
here all the way around the shoulders.
So how to get that edge in there.
What I'm to do is press control r and insert an edge loop up here at the neckline and then I want to
press Alt click and I want to select this loop all the way around here like this
nominee hit the one key to go back to the front view.
And then what I can do is I can slide this edge down to be the edge that I want to create.
So what we need is that slide edge tool again I'm going to press control.
We go to Ed slide and I'll just drag the mouse out and it'll pull that edge down like that and I'll
just pull that back up.
Now we may need to do a little point pulling here and that's certainly fine.
I can pull these up a bit and ultimately will need to pull these out.
So they're more uniformly distributed along the front here.
But that's what I wanted to get for now at least.
I'll also do the same thing with this edge of press control i.e. an edge slide and drag that down a
hair.
And then I want to insert one more in here like so maybe scale that in a bit.
All right so that makes those polygons a little bit more uniform as they're coming off of the neck and
down into the shoulder.
But let's look at the arms here.
I think I could use an edge loop right around here in the middle.
And another one right around here on the forearm that splits that up into more uniform polygons and
then down here I think I'll do the same thing just mid shin here and maybe mid thigh here.
That would go for the torso area.
I feel like I need just at least one more here.
I think I'm going to select this edge around the bottom of the rib cage just move that up a hair.
I think I want to take these at the hips and move these down slightly like that.
I want to insert an edge loop right around in here.
I just want three edge loops coming off of the bottom of the arm.
So if I have this edge here at the bottom of the arms I'm going to want one here two three and then
the legs begin here.
I think that will give me enough to work with.
So at this stage it's really all about preparing for the sculped part of the process.
I'm just trying to give myself enough resolution so that the sculp tool can subdivided evenly without
overloading the geometry with more polygons and we actually need.
All right.
Let's take a look at the hands.
I'm going to come in here and I'd like to just select these vertices here and what I want to do is I
think I'd like to create the hands here so there's slightly facing down thumbs forward.
I think that'll be an easier pose to rig ultimately.
So let's think about how we want to do the hands here.
I think I'm going to need extra edge loops at the back of the arm and at the front to the arm and that'll
give me enough resolution to build out the fingers.
So if I control r and insert an edge loop right here and do the same.
Oh it went all the way around here.
Good.
I think I'd like to get this edge a little higher.
So I'm just going to move some edges around here.
Real quick with the slide to all I just think these pages are a little bit too close together right
now.
There we go.
Yeah.
So now we have a little bit more resolution down here.
Not a lot but I think enough to work with.
All right so I'm going to grab these faces.
So I think I want to change this to normal real quick.
The transformation orientation currently the orientation of the manipulators here is based on the world
coordinates.
I think I want them to be based on the normal coordinates of the faces that I've got selected here so
I'll just change that to normal.
I'll zoom in here and I'll scale these so they're a little bit flatter select those faces hit extrude
and I'm going to pull straight out.
Now what I want to do is take these points here right here and scale these in
and bring these back like so toward the palm of the hand like so and now it's this area that we're going
to extrude the thumb out of.
So I'll go back to face mode and hit each for extrude.
I'm going to click and go straight to the move tool and scale and rotate etc. and then I'm going to
bring the thumb out a little more and hit extrude again go straight to the move to press the key scale
in a hair more.
And lastly one more time.
For the tip of the thumb like this
right so now let's see if I can get this edge back.
So I'm going to select this edge with the Alt key and move it back a bit scaled up some.
So that's going to be our thumb or at least the basis of our thumb.
Keep in mind I'm keeping everything pretty small pretty skinny because as I said we're going to need
room to build the sculped out.
All right.
So let's call that our thumb for now we'll see if we need to adjust that here.
I can move this little point this way and maybe move this point a little this way like that.
OK.
So now what I'm going to do is move these up into here like this.
And the interesting thing about this is that we're going to get rid of this whole area here at the bottom.
So notice now I've got four edges here.
One two three four.
Those are the edges that are going to be the basis of the fingers.
Now I don't have four edges here I just have to sort of what let's do is let's go back to the face mode
and select these faces.
And what I want to do is just delete a moment hit the x key and go to faces what I need to do is make
it so these.
So the top of the hand has four faces on it just like the palm of the hand.
So what I'm going to do is just select these two faces and instead of just hitting the key which is
the extrude button over here I'm going to choose extrude individual faces and then just move the mouse
a bit and you can see they're kind of coming out individually right there to two different faces as
opposed to all one Samana right click.
And now I want to go back to that individual origins and scale these in if I hit the ESC key and scale
I'm in.
Now we get that.
And at this point I can use that knife tool again to create a few edges here so I'm going to press the
K key and hover over here so I get this edge and draw it straight out to here and press enter.
So like this one draw straight out to here and hit enter.
And then one more I'm going to go here to here and enter.
And now I can go back to edges and select this edge and this edge and press X and dissolve edges.
Now I've got one two three four edges that I can work with here to build out the fingers.
So I'm going to start moving these around spacing them with the edge slide tool.
So now that we have our edges matching up what let's do is go ahead and fill this hole with a face and
then we can cut edges into it to prepare for extruding out the fingers.
So I'll select this entire edge with all to select and then I'll just press the F key and that will
fill that whole thing with a face.
Now I can come back with the knife tool again I'll go to Virtex mode and press the K key and I'll just
select these points right here and hit enter K and create these edges.
And there we go.
So now we have the faces that we can extrude the fingers out of and begin down here with the pinky like
that face.
And let's just begin extruding this out.
So I'll hit the extrude scale down a bit.
And again and move this and scale and rotated hair and once again easy and move and rotate and scale.
So that's what we need to do for all of these.
Right.
I'll go ahead and do it for the next one here.
Now you may or may not have notice that my character the character drawing that I've provided the goblin
actually only has four fingers.
He's only got or he's got three fingers and a thumb.
But I thought that would be more beneficial to show how to create a normal hand with all five fingers.
So my goblin may be a little bit different then my reference image.
I just thought this would be a little more useful to people creating their own characters.
All right so there we have our hands.
We're getting there we're getting closer to the point where we can actually begin sculpting our polygons
are getting a little bit more proportional and a little bit more evenly sized.
We've got our hands set up.
There may be more adjusting we need to do but in the next video I think we'll deal with the face creating
basic edge loop patterns for the eyes and the mouth.
And also we're going to need to extrude the ears out.
I keep forgetting that this guy's got pretty big ears.
And we go so we need to do the ears as well.